So we said there are three parts to the Java security story,
and the first thing is permissions.
So a permission in Java is represented by a subclass of the Permission class.
Permissions are used both for requesting a permission,
so I have to explicitly ask for permission,
and for granting the permission.
In code, a library will request a permission,
and the policy will grant the permission.
And there's some examples of permissions here.
So, for example, there's a FilePermission,
and this extends the base Permission class and the FilePermission
gives us or disallows us access to the file system.
So we'd use this to set up read and/or write access to the file system.
There's a SocketPermission,
and we can use this to allow us to access sockets on specific ports.
And there's also things like a PropertyPermission,
and this extends a base class called BasicPermission,
which many other classes do.
And the PropertyPermission allows me access to basic
properties within the Java runtime.
And we'll see examples of this in a moment.
There's also policy.
Policy is represented by a pluggable class.
So there's a default policy that comes with the framework,
but you can replace that with your own policy implementation.
This works with our ClassLoader,
so our secure ClassLoader, and something called a CodeSource, and this
allows us to grant permissions when code is loaded.
So this is the granting mechanism.
The default implementation uses something called a policy file,
which is a text file which can grant permissions to
allow us to do specific things.
The default policy file looks like this. This at least
is the start of the policy file.
This tells us, for example,
that the extensions directory in Java, these things have all permissions.
Any code loaded from the extensions directory can do
anything it wants within the framework.
And then underneath that, we see specific permissions granted,
so code loaded from anywhere can stop a thread,
it can listen on a socket, and there are many other things this
can do. We're not listing everything here.
This is quite a long file.
And then finally there's enforcement. So enforcement is represented by
something called the AccessController, and the AccessController and the
SecurityManager work hand in hand to provide enforcement.
It's the job of the developer to require permissions, so
typically inside a framework inside the library, the development
will call to the AccessController and say,
is this code that's currently executing allowed to do this thing?
Does it have the permission to access the file system? Does
it have the permission to access a socket?
So this is an opt‑in model, so every library has to opt in to security.
So it's the job of the library writer to call into the AccessController and say,
is this permission allowed?
And in the next module, we'll see how each of these things plays together to allow or disallow access to specific things within Java.